>> Kevin Powell: Now we just looked
at creating the section class that
we're using.
The section class acts
a lot like a utility class.
A wrapper in a very big way
is also a utility class.
Some people think of utility classes as
things that are like one selector for
one property value pair, but
I find it's anything that
does one very specific thing.
So wrap the content and
holding it in the middle or
must setting the padding
like we've been doing.
And I mention that I do think there's
useful times to have a lot of different
utilities along the way, but finding the
balance is an important thing with them.
But I like looking through the project,
so we did the spacing now.
And if I come and look through
the project now, dive into the file,
you hopefully saw some other things.
I brought some of them up before on other
areas where we can have utility classes
that could help us out.
And the main thing I look for
to think of if something could be a useful
utility is looking at, say,
I look at the paragraph that's right here.
This paragraph, let me,
the paragraph right there,
is identical to the paragraphs
that are down here,
except the font-size is bigger,
there's no other change.
It's also identical to this
paragraph here, except this one,
the color has changed on it, where this
one's the light brownish color, and
this one here is just pure white.
And then if I look in other places too,
like this one's actually in between that
this one's the same as this,
but it's slightly smaller.
We have different font-sizes coming in.
And one way we could do something like
this is on each one of these sections,
I could choose, right now, all I've done
is called them section, it's section,
class section.
And I could come in here and
be like, okay,
this section needs paragraphs
that are gonna be a bit bigger.
So how would I distinguish,
how would I select that?
And what a lot of people do is, okay,
I'm gonna do section equals
joys of mushroom foraging.
And then down here, section class is
equal to start your adventure, or
something like that.
And you start naming classes based on
the content of what's there inside
of each section, and then you just
style up that section as it is.
That's first of all, a little bit hard
cuz sometimes the content can change.
So if the content changed right here,
and the title was different,
all of a sudden the class name
has completely lost its meaning.
And the other problem is, as a project
grows or you need new sections that
are getting added, you end up repeating
yourself over and over again.
Because you'll end up with these areas
that are very similar with these slight
little differences.
Even looking at this section
versus this section,
we have the background color change.
But then, even this section or the two
areas that have the green background,
the content is quite different.
There's similarities between the two of
them, but we have the two columns here,
we don't have it over here, for example.
So trying to find the similarities,
where there's small differences, for me,
is what I search for when trying to figure
out the types of classes I could reuse
just to help myself out.
And sometimes, I sprinkle these
throughout a whole project.
And then I find areas like, actually,
I'm gonna delete that to a make class,
just cuz it's gonna be easier for
me to be able to do it that way around.
And in the lesson,
there is one that you can grab
the utilities that I think are useful.
But the main thing that
I often do is actually,
as I look through a lot of the things
here, the things that tend, in my opinion,
to make the best utility classes
are background-colors and font-sizes.
Sometimes things like border radiuses.
I used to use a lot of margin and
padding utility classes, and
I moved away from doing that.
But if it's something
that you like having,
you can definitely have those types of
utilities just cuz then you don't have to
remember 16 pixels versus 21 pixels,
you just margin four or margin five.
So if you put prefer that type of thin,
it's completely fine.
I just, again,
finding that balance for me,
I stopped using those
as much as I used to.
I found it more tedious than anything and
it was easier just to have a class on
something cuz, usually,
there's other parts to that as well.
But for the font-sizes, for
background-colors, font-weights,
can occasionally be useful, I don't think
we need font-weights in this project.
But if you have a lot of varying
font-weights, and all you need to change
is the font-weight on an element and
nothing else about it, it can be useful.
Just like we're changing the color
in a couple of these spots
where a utility class could potentially
be useful to do something like that.
So one thing I tend to do, and
some people don't like this,
so if you don't like it,
that's completely fine.
But I actually do this a lot,
whoops, wrong layer, my base layer.
I tend to use a lot of
these that I have all here.
And I'm not gonna bother with the
border-radiuses, I don't think, but I tend
to bother a lot with these ones, and I
turn a lot of these into utility classes.
And it feels kind of weird having them as
a utility class and as a custom property.
As we build out things here, hopefully,
you see why I bother doing it.
But I'm gonna copy all of those,
come all the way down to the bottom,
cuz that's where I have my utilities.
And for me, this is the fastest way to
do it, is, we can bring them all in and
actually just delete the ends off of all
of these just cuz I'm gonna be using them.
But then I come in with a,
say, text-main, and I turn,
whoops, I should have first put the var.
I actually do a text-main as a color.
And you see this can go really fast,
a var text-main.
And when you start doing this, it can
feel like it's a bit of a long process.
I didn't do an opening curly brace.
Let me just fix that, there we go, and
might use very broken line right now.
But once you have this setup,
its very fast to copy-paste.
And I need my text-brand right so I just
select on the high-contrast, I should say,
I select the main, I push Command D or
Control D, so it select both of them.
And then I can do high-contrast,
whoops, like that.
And then we can get rid of that one.
I can copy this one, paste it,
select the high-contrast,
Control or Command D, and
that one was my brand.
>> Kevin Powell: Then we do the same
thing for the background-colors and
everything else.
So it doesn't take very long to
do if you're doing it quickly.
If you don't wanna name the class
the same as the custom property,
you don't have to do that either.
You could do a BG here, which is what most
people would probably do, just cuz it's
a bit faster and easier to write BG
than it is to write the alternative.
But I would do my background-light,
I'm just gonna copy this, and
then do my background-color.
If you're doing utility classes,
I would also strongly recommend doing
background-color and not background.
Cuz occasionally,
you need a background-color and
a background-image and you don't wanna run
this on short hand overwriting issues.
So var background-light.
If you're doing thing with abate more
turing, some of this steps can be
automated too, but again,
I don't find it that long to do this.
Its gonna go full screen so
we can see everything I'm doing.
Paste it in, light I think is,
that's my main,
>> Kevin Powell: Main,
>> Kevin Powell: And I'm just gonna do
this one here.
You get the picture of how this
is working and how I work.
And we'll do that one as the dark.
And then, as I said, all of this is
available
>> Kevin Powell: Down a little
bit on the page where I'm giving
you the different ones I'm using.
So if you wanna just go through and
grab these ones, it's exactly what I'm
doing now, going through them all,
there's one additional thing.
So just for speed sake, we can grab those
instead of copying and pasting everything.
And I'm just gonna go from my
visually hidden and replace them all.
>> Kevin Powell: And then,
once you've done that,
the only things I've added here is
a section title and a text-center.
So text-align: center is gonna
be useful in a couple of spots.
It's always a hand you want to have.
You might also wanna have a text-end or
a text-right for
text alignment, right,
if you feel like you need that.
In this project, we don't need it, so
I'm not gonna add it just for having it.
It'd be something, if I needed it later
on, I could add it as utility class.
And for the section-title,
my main thinking with the section-title,
it's that idea that I had before where I
mentioned I don't like attaching things to
the semantic thing.
So even though all of my h2's do look
the same, I like having a class for that.
And I just feel like, in this case,
section-title makes sense.
I might have other h2's somewhere
else that will look differently.
And in this case,
it's always the title or the heading, so
you could call it section heading as well,
that I'd be using for each one of those.
And then with those in place, it takes a
little while to set these up all the time.
But then, when you start using them,
I'm gonna skip the hero area right here.
And I know we haven't got to
the navigation yet, we'll get there soon.
But then, when we get into our project,
the three columns will stay the same.
But then we get to this one right here.
So that's the start,
we're in the right spot.
Well, we can start right
there where that span is.
I can do my class is text-brand and
I get the color coming in.
I don't really have anything
else to change there.
It's something I'll probably use
occasionally, so it makes sense for
me to have that.
My h2, as I said, gets my class is
equal to section-heading title,
which I think I made a mistake in
the font-size, cuz that looks tiny.
We'll adjust that in a minute,
I do apologize.
We'll come back to that in a minute,
cuz then I also have my section here that
had the background-accent that gives
us the green background on there.
Then if we come down to this section,
which is the next one, I do believe.
Yeah, that one down here is right here.
So for that one,
we wanna have the section,
we'll have the background-extra-dark.
And it's a bit hard to see, but
we definitely have a contrast in our text
there, and my h2 will also get the class
= section-heading, and get too small.
So we'll fix that title,
keep using the wrong one.
Connect with nature.
The only change I believe
we need down there
is also the class section-title.
And then we start getting the different
background-colors coming through,
which makes life look a lot better.
Let's just go see what I
did with my section-title.
Heading-base, mm-hm,
I must have made a mistake early on then.
Let's go find that, font-size.
I think I know what it is,
it's not base, it's regular.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, it's regular,
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah,
regular, there we go.
Let's just go look down,
that's better, [LAUGH].
So regular instead of the base, next up.
If I go, let's just go look at this at
a little bit of a bigger screen size.
I think this one too, I need to adjust
as well, so I'm just missing the joys.
The joys, there we go.
I have an h2 class = section-heading.
Title I did that every single one,
I think, there we go,
awesome,
>> Kevin Powell: Again,
I just really wanna preface,
this is how I like to work,
how I feel like it helps me make
a website a little bit for faster.
We've done a lot of
prep work up until now.
And now that things are starting to come
together, we should see the speed of
things increases as we do things, and
we're doing them in very generic ways.
I'm not doing things based on how this
one section is looking on this one part
of the page.
I'm trying to find things that are
universally going to be able to be applied
everywhere.
So it definitely leads
to a lot more build up.
But as time goes on,
then our projects can grow from there.
>> Speaker 2: So since you've
created some utility classes here,
what's the difference with this than just
reaching for something like tailwind?
It looks similar in the situation
with using utility classes.
So is there a benefit to
writing with selectors or
rules, especially, if you're trying
to split your code into components?
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah, so hopefully,
we're gonna see a little bit,
I do I think there's tons of
value in utility classes.
I just find that the pendulum
swings completely over in that
direction that we end up with,
instead of, especially,
when you're writing in a vanilla
situation like we're doing now.
It ends up at one point, like when
we start getting to other things,
where I'm looking for
things now that are like one-off changes.
I can change the color text,
the background-color here,
little things like that.
When we get to say something like
the cards where I need padding,
a border-radius, a background-color,
some spacing that gonna be consistent, so
I'm gonna be throwing four or
five, six different things at it.
Or if I'm doing a button or something like
that, instead of having seven utility
classes that I might have to reuse
the exact same one somewhere else,
that's where I'm okay.
Once I pass like three utility classes,
maybe even two,
maybe I could just use a class here and
make my life easier.
But I do think there's a lot of value in
starting with utilities, starting with
the generic selectors, as much as
possible, doing what you can with them.
And then you find these the more
situational things after that, and
work on those ones individually.